.\" FirstAidKit 
.TH "FirstAidKitRevert" "1"
.SH "NAME" FirstAidKitRevert
.BR
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
firstaidkitrevert [options] <plugins>
.br

.BR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Firsaidkit has the possibility of reverting the changes made by the plugins.
This is only possible in plugins that implement the revert functionality.
Plugins must use persistent backup for this to happen.  From the users
point of view the plugin will leave a directory somewhree in the directory
tree (This directory is shown to the user at the end of firstaidkits execution)
that can be used to change the system back to the state in which the plugin
found it.

In order to use the revert functionality you must specify the plugin you wish
to revert and the directory in which the plugin stored its backup information.
As stated before, the directory in which al the backedup information lies is
shown at the end of fistatidkits execution.

.PP
.SH "OPTIONS"
.IP "-P PATH, --plugin-path=PATH"
Location of directories that contain plugins.
.IP "-c PATH, config=PATH"
Location of configuration file.
.IP "--dir=PATH"
This is where firstaidkit backup is located.  This is not the directory
of individual plugins.  Rather it identifies the directory where firstaidkit
stored all the persistent backups.
.IP "--all"
Indicates to firstaidkitrevert to ignore the list of plugins and revert
all that is found on --dir

.PP
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.IP "firstaidkitrevert -P /tmp/fakbackup/10112008_SAFQq-_/ grub"
Reverts whatever was done in the grub plugin.  It looks for the backups in
/tmp/fakbackup/10112008_SAFQq-_/

.PP
.SH "BUGS"
.nf
Please report bugs at http://fedorahosted.org/firstaidkit/newticket
.fi

.PP
.SH "AUTHORS"
.nf
Martin Sivak <msivak@redhat.com>
Joel Granados <jgranado@redhat.com>
.fi

.PP
.SH "FILES"
.nf
/etc/firstaidkit.conf
.fi

.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nf
http://fedorahosted.org/firstaidkit
.fi
